# Regression-Model-for-predicting-House-Sale-Prices
This report aims to investigate how well the prices of houses in King County can be predicted from the area of the living spaces. The dataset used for this analysis contains sample house sale prices for King County, areas of living spaces and basements, number of bedrooms and bathrooms and fifteen other house related features. A simple linear regression model would be used to predict the prices of houses in King County from the areas of living spaces. The results of this analysis can provide real estate dealers with a reliable estimate for the value of properties in King County.
Before the simple linear regression model is used, we would determine, using a scatterplot, if there is a linear association (correlation) between the variables of interest. This linear association will be quantified using the Pearson’s correlation coefficient r. Afterwards, a least square regression line would be used to produce a mathematical equation that describes the relationship between area of living spaces and the prices of houses which will be used to predict the prices of houses in King County. Again, the coefficient of determination R2 (r2 for simple linear regression) is computed to measure how well the model predicts the prices of houses. Furthermore, a confidence interval for the slope of the regression equation is computed and interpreted. Finally, a p-value for the regression slope is computed and interpreted to evaluate the statistical significance of this slope.
